
# InstaPostsToExcel

This small application is a stand-alone extension for [Instaloader](https://instaloader.github.io/). Its 
task is to merge *.json.xz files (metadata of instagram posts), images and comments generated by Instaloader into a *.xlsx file. This makes it easier to view the post texts in context with the images.




## Features

- extract meta data from Instaloader \*.json.xz files
- extract comments from Instaloader \*.json.xz files
- bind posts, images, and comments together

## Prerequisites

1. To use the tool, make sure you installed all the modules from the [requirements.txt](requirements.txt) and potential dependencies.
2. The tool only works with files downloaded via Instaloader.
3. Only metadata files with \*.json.xz extension and images with \*.jpg extension are supported.
4. Make sure your folder structure fit the structure below.
4. The tool is only tested in Windows environment. If you are lucky, running it in other environments, let me know :) 

### File and folder structure

The tool works with a single folder containing the data as well as with a folder with multiple folders containing the data. The corresponding *.xz.json files and the *.jpg files have to be in the same folder.

#### Example structure 1
- folder
    - sub-folder
        - *.json.xz
        - *.jpg
    - sub-folder
        - ...

#### Example structure 2
- folder
 - *.json.xz
 - *.jpg
 - ...
## Common Usage
1. Start the [main.py](main.py)
2. Define the path of the directory where the files or folders with files are located
3. Define the name and the path of the \*.xlsx file the tool generates
## Deployment

If you want to share the tool with people who cannot use Python, it is possible to convert the tool into an *.exe file using e.g. [PyInstaller](https://github.com/pyinstaller/pyinstaller). Last time, however, it did not work with the `--one-file` option, but only unpacked as a folder.
## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2022 SimSon2710

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

## 🔗 Links
[Instaloader](https://instaloader.github.io/)  
[PyInstaller](https://github.com/pyinstaller/pyinstaller)

